# Internationalization (i18n)

This document explains how internationalization (i18n) works in our Extension, allowing the extension to support multiple languages seamlessly.

### How i18n Works

The extension uses the browser's built-in i18n system to replace placeholders in the `manifest.json` and HTML files with the appropriate messages for the user's selected language.

### Placeholder Syntax

Placeholders in the extension are defined using the `__MSG_<key>__` syntax, where `<key>` corresponds to a message defined in a `messages.json` file.

The browser replaces these placeholders with the corresponding messages from the appropriate `messages.json` file based on the user's language settings.

For example:
- In the `manifest.json` file:
  ```json
  {
    "name": "__MSG_app_name__",
    "description": "__MSG_app_description__"
  }
  ```

- In HTML files:
  ```html
  <head>
    <title>__MSG_app_name__</title>
  </head>
  ```

- In JavaScript Files

  In JavaScript files, the extension uses the `I18n.getMessage` API to retrieve localized strings from the `messages.json` file of the active locale. Unlike in `manifest.json` or HTML files, where the `__MSG_<key>__` syntax is used, in JavaScript files you only pass the `<key>` directly to the `I18n.getMessage` function.

  ```javascript
  const appName = I18n.getMessage('app_name');

  console.info(appName);
  ```

### I18n Files

The `messages.json` files store the localized messages for different languages. Below are examples of how these files look for the `en_US` and `pt_BR` locales.

- **English (`en_US/messages.json`)**:

  ```json
  {
    "app_name": {
      "message": "Password Manager"
    },
    "app_description": {
      "message": "Extension to use credentials saved in Hashicorp Vault."
    }
  }
  ```

- **Portuguese (`pt_BR/messages.json`):**:

  ```json
  {
    "app_name": {
      "message": "Gerenciador de Senhas"
    },
    "app_description": {
      "message": "Extensão para utilizar credenciais salvas no Hashicorp Vault."
    }
  }
  ```

### Adding Support for New Languages

To add support for a new language, follow these steps:

1. **Create a New Locale Folder**:
    - Inside the `src/_locales/` directory, create a new folder for the desired language using the language code format (e.g., `fr_FR` for French).
    - For example: `src/_locales/fr_FR/`.

1. **Add the `messages.json` File**:
    - Inside the newly created folder, create a `messages.json` file.
    - The structure of this file should mirror the existing `messages.json` files for other languages, but with translated strings for the new language.

    Example for French (`fr_FR/messages.json`):
    ```json
    {
      "app_name": {
        "message": "Gestionnaire de Mots de Passe"
      },
      "app_description": {
        "message": "Extension pour utiliser les identifiants sauvegardés dans Hashicorp Vault."
      }
    }

1. **Test the Extension**:

    - Load the extension in your browser in developer mode.
    - Change the language of your browser to the newly added language and verify that the extension displays the correct translations.

[Go Back.](../README.md)